# Migration Overview

Is your Teams App currently build using the [BotFramework (BF) SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-sdk)? If so you should migrate it to the Teams AI library.

Here are a few reasons why:

1. Take advantage of the advanced AI system to build complex LLM-powered Teams applications. 
2. User authentication is a pain in the BF SDK. It is built right into the library and setting it up is now easy.
3. The library builds on top of fundamental BF SDK tools & concepts, so your existing knowledge is easily transferrable. 
4. The library keeps up to date with the latest advancements in the LLM AI space so you can expect your app to have the latest tools.



Before going into the details, it is important to understand how the library is different from the BF SDK.

In a BF SDK app, the entireity of the bot logic is implemented by extending the `ActivityHandler` (or `TeamsActivityHandler`) class and overriding specific activity handlers. When the incomming activity is recieved by the bot, it is processed by the configured adapter and then passed onto the activity handler object. This library effectively replaces the activity handler object with the `Application` object. So in a Teams AI app, the configured adapter - which is the same object as the BF SDK app - processes the incomming activity and invokes the `Application` object.



With this in mind, migration boils down to replacing the BF SDK `ActivityHandler` with the Teams AI `Application` object. Here are a few differences between these two classes.



The `Application` object:

1. replaces the traditional `ActivityHandler` that a bot would use. It supports a simpler fluent style of authoring bots versus the inheritance based approach used by the `ActivityHandler` class. 

2. has built-in support for calling into the library's AI system that can be used to create bots that leverage Large Language Models (LLM) and other AI capabilities.

3. has built-in support for configuring user authentication to access user data from third-party services like Microsoft Graph.



Here are the guides on how to migrate from the BotFramework SDK:



1. [JS Migration]()

2. [C# Migration]()
