# Prompt Templates

1. [Prompts](./00.PROMPTS.md)
2. [**Prompt Template**](./01.PROMPT-TEMPLATES.md)
3. [Planner](./02.PLANNER.md)
4. [Actions](./03.ACTIONS.md)
5. [Chain](./04.CHAIN.md)
6. [Turns](./05.TURNS.md)


Prompt templates are a simple and powerful way to
define and compose AI functions **using plain text**.
You can use it to create natural language prompts, generate responses, extract
information, **invoke other prompts** or perform any other task that can be
expressed with text.

The language supports two basic features that allow you to (**#1**) include
variables and (**#2**) call functions.

##### Simple Example:

Here's an example of a prompt template:

```
Give me 3 name suggestions for my pet {{ $petName }}.
```

```$petName``` is a variable that is populated on runtime when the template is rendered.

#### Prompt Template Language

The language supports two basic features that allow you to (#1) include
variables and (#2) call functions.

You don't need to write any code or import any external libraries, just use the
curly braces {{...}} to embed expressions in your prompts.
Teams AI will parse your template and execute the logic behind it.
This way, you can easily integrate AI into your apps with minimal effort and
maximum flexibility.

#### Variables

To include a variable value in your text, use the `{{$variableName}}` syntax. For example, if you have a variable called name that holds the user's name, you can write:

```Hello {{$name}}, nice to meet you!```

This will produce a greeting with the user's name.

Spaces are ignored, so if you find it more readable, you can also write:

```Hello {{ $name }}, nice to meet you!```

###### C#

In the `Application` class,

```dotnet
AI.Prompts.Variables.Add("name", "John Doe");
```

###### JS/TS

```js
app.beforeTurn((context, state) => {
    state.temp.value["name"] = "John Doe";
});
```
In Javascript, you can simply add to the `state.temp.value` object, and it will be accessible from the prompt template on runtime. Note that the safest place to do that would be in the `beforeTurn` activity because it will execute before any activity handler or action.

##### Default Variables

The following are variables accesible in the prompt template without having to manually configure. These are pre-defined in the turn state and populated by the library backend. Users can override them by changing it in the turn state.

| Variable name  | Description | C# | JS/TS | Python | 
|---|------|---|---|---|
| `input`   | Input passed to an AI prompt. This is usually the user's message. | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| `output`   | Most recent output from AI prompt for prompt function.   | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ |
| `history`   | Formatted conversation history for embedding in an AI prompt. | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |

### Function calls

To call an external function and embed the result in your text, use the ```{{ functionName }}``` syntax. For example if you have a function called `diceRoll` that returns a random number between 1 and 6, you can write:

```The dice roll has landed on: {{ diceRoll }}```

###### C#

In the `Application` class,

```dotnet
AI.Prompts.AddFunction("diceRoll", (turnContext, turnState) => {
    /// returns a number between 1 and 6.
});
```

###### JS/TS

```js
app.ai.prompts.addFunction("diceRoll", (context, state) => {
    /// returns a value between 1 and 6
}) 
```

<!-- TODO: Add a section that describes the prompt folder with the config.json file and skprompt.txt file. -->
