## Planner

1. [Prompts](./00.PROMPTS.md)
2. [Prompt Template](./01.TEMPLATES.md)
3. [**Planner**](./02.PLANNER.md)
4. [Actions](./03.ACTIONS.md)
5. [Chain](./04.CHAIN.md)
6. [Turns](./05.TURNS.md)

A planner is a function that takes in a user's ask and returns back a plan on how to accomplish the request. The user's ask is in the form of a prompt or prompt template. It does this by using AI to mix and match atomic functions (called *actions*) registered to the AI module so that it can recombine them into series of steps that complete a goal.

This is a powerful concept because it allows you to create actions that can be used in ways that you as a developer may not have thought of.

For instance, If you have a task and `Summarize` & `SendEmail` action, the planner could combine them to create workflows like "Rewrite the following report into a short paragraph, and email it to johndoe@email.com" without you explicitly having to write code for those scenarios.

Planner is an extensible part of Teams AI. This means that we have several planners to choose from and that you could create a custom planner if ou had specific needs. Below is a table of the out-of-the-box planners provided by Teams AI and their language support.

| Planner  | Description | C# | JS/TS | Python | 
|---|------|---|---|---|
| OpenAIPlanner   |     A planner that uses OpenAI's textCompletion and chatCompletion API's to generate plans.  | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| AzureOpenAIPlanner   | A planner that uses OpenAI's textCompletion and chatCompletion API's to generate plans  | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |


### Plan

A plan is the entity that is generated by the planner. It is a JSON object of the following shape:

```json
{
  "type": "plan",
  "commands": [
    {
      "type": "DO",
      "action": "<name>",
      "entities": {
        "<name>": "<value>"
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "SAY",
      "response": "<response>"
    }
  ]
}
```

A plan consists of two types of commands:

 - **SAY**: Sends a message to the user.
   - *response*: The string message to send.  
 - **DO**: AI module will execute a specific *action*, passing the entities as a parameter.
   - *action*: A lambda function registered to the AI module
   - *entities*: A dictionary passed to the action. 

The JSON object string is returned by the LLM and deserialized into an object.

#### Example

Here's an example of a plan for the following ask:

User:
```Create a grocery shopping list and add bananas to it.```

Plan:
```json
{
  "type": "plan",
  "commands": [
    {
      "type": "DO",
      "action": "createList",
      "entities": {
        "name": "Grocery Shopping"
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "DO",
      "action": "addItem",
      "entities": {
        "name": "Bananas"
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "SAY",
      "response": "Created a grocery shopping list and added a banana to it."
    }
  ]
}
```

This plan is executed in sequential order. So first the list will be created and then an item will be added to it. Finally, the `response` message will be sent to the user.

### How is a plan created?

A planner is a class implements a method to generate a plan. The method signature can vary between programming languages, but it is fundamentally the same. You can use LLMs to generate a plan or do it using conventional programming constructs. In this SDK we provide default LLM planners `OpenAIPlanner` and `AzureOpenAIPlanner`.

They use OpenAI's text and chat completion APIs to get an LLM model to generate the plan. To do that you have to craft a prompt that gets the model to return a *plan* Json string, i.e *planner prompt*.

Here's an example of a planner prompt template:

```
The following is a conversation with an AI assistant.
The assistant can manage lists of items.
The assistant must return the following JSON structure:

{"type":"plan","commands":[{"type":"DO","action":"<name>","entities":{"<name>":<value>}},{"type":"SAY","response":"<response>"}]}

The following actions are supported:

- createList name="<list name>"
- addItem list="<list name>" item="<text>"

User: {{ $input }}
```
> Note that the prompt is asking the model to return a json object of a specific schema using natural langauge.


If the `{{ $input }}` variable is set to *"Create a grocery shopping list and add bananas to it"*,  then you can expect the model to generate a plan like the corresponding example above.

