# Migrating from Botbuilder SDK to Teams AI.

Previously, users developing bots for Teams and Microsoft 365 apps used the BotBuilder SDK. The Teams-AI SDK is designed to help you build bots that can interact with Teams and Microsoft 365 apps.

While one of the exciting features of this SDK is the AI support that customers will be able to migrate to, your team's first goals might be simply to update your current bot without AI.

> Please note: the formatting below does not necessarily follow traditional dotnet conventions. This was purposefully done to instantly viewing the differences easier.

### New activity handler class, Old activity handling method

In the BotFramework SDK the Bot class extended the `TeamsActivityHandler` class. In Teams AI you will replace that with the `Application<TurnState, TurnStateManager>` class.

```diff
- public class EchoBot : TeamsActivityHandler { }

+ public class EchoBot : Application<TurnState, TurnStateManager> {
+
+    public EchoBot(ApplicationOptions<TurnState, TurnStateManager> options) : base(options) {}
+ }
```

> The `TurnState` and `TurnStateManager` are classes that make up the turn state infrastructure. The generic types in the `Application` class allow users to customize the shape of the turn state.

The activity handling method is the same for both (previous) `TeamsActivityHandler` and (new) `Application` class, except for a few nuances. See below for more.

#### New turn state parameter:

`TState turnState` has been added as a parameter to `OnMessageActivityAsync`.

```diff
protected virtual Task OnMessageActivityAsync(
    ITurnContext<IMessageActivity> turnContext,
+   TState turnState,
    CancellationToken cancellationToken);
```

#### Drop the `Teams` prefix:

`onTeamsChannelCreatedAsync` is modified to `OnChannelCreatedAsync`.

```diff
protected virtual Task
-    OnTeamsChannelCreatedAsync(
+    OnChannelCreatedAsync(
        ChannelInfo channelInfo,
        TeamInfo teamInfo,
        ITurnContext<IConversationUpdateActivity> turnContext,
        TState turnState,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken);
```

#### Reorder parameters for consistency:

> Note that in `OnSearchInvokeAsync`, the parameter `SearchInvokeValue: invokeValue` has been moved to the first parameter, to precede `ITurnContext<IInvokeActivity>: turnContext`. `CancellationToken cancellationToken` remains as the last parameter.

```diff
protected virtual Task<SearchInvokeResponse> OnSearchInvokeAsync(
      SearchInvokeValue invokeValue,
      ITurnContext<IInvokeActivity> turnContext,
+     TState turnState,
      CancellationToken cancellationToken);
```

For every activity handler method in the BotFramework SDK, users can replace it with a corresponding method in the `Application` class.

This is all it takes to port over to Teams AI!
